Let's talk about having
interrelated reducers.
So like the use case, the problem
statement is when I unassign a user or
I remove a user, which I probably need
to wire up that button at some point,
someone remind me.
When I remove a user, it should unassign
them from whatever tasks are assigned.
That seems like reasonable, there's other
fun things you can do in this repo if you
want to play around afterwards
there's select things,
we can change all sorts
of other fun things.
Some of this I will leave in there in
case the spirit moved us, or if you want
to try some of the stuff out later
I've left the setup in there for you.
But I think we've got to remove button.
We've got both pieces that seems like
a fair place to go in and do something.
So let's go ahead and kind of look
at how we might go about that.
Okay, so let's see,
the fun part is we got to allude to this
before is that I will show
you this again just in case,
on top of reducers,
there is this idea called extraReducers.
And the heuristic here is the reducers are
the ones that are tightly bound the slice,
extraReducers are the other things that
the thing might care about, right?
So for instance, maybe there's
a logout action where you maybe want
to just dump everything that's in
state and then clean it out, right?
So they're not walking around some zombie
state where they're logged out, but
all the data's still loaded.
That's like a use case.
There's all sorts of things that might
happen that you might want to deal with.
ExtraReduces are like,
here are the extra or additional things
that aren't the done for
me prewired up ready to go things.
So really if we think about it like
The tasks wants to know when
a user has been removed, right?
It has a concern over there, and
I don't wanna fire two actions.
I don't wanna fire user slash remove user.
And then also tasks slash
unassigned user from tasks, right?
Because every reducer gets
every action no matter what.
So you have multiple things that
are just amazing because again,
you just say that a thing
happened in a Redux codebase.
You're like, a user has been removed.
Everyone gets the message, right?
Whoever cares about it can deal with it,
and
whoever doesn't care about it just lets
it fall through the conditions, right?
It's actually super elegant and
makes sometimes what seems like otherwise
complicated things make a ton of sense.
So that's where that
builder comes back in.
There is an object notation again just
like you saw above, where you can use
the action types and then use that syntax
with the square brackets to key them in.
That is planned to be deprecated for
Redux Tools Kit 2.0, so
I'm just not gonna do it.
You can look it up but even maybe by
the time you watch it, it's gone so
we're gonna do the thing
that's here to stay.
And so, we'll have that in place
also because it's a nice pattern.
I like it.
We've got the builder and
this works exactly like the create
reducer that I showed you before.
That create reducer that we're using,
didn't have this idea, it wasn't a slice,
it didn't have this idea of these bound
actions to it, it simply was there for
anything, I made those strings
up increment decrement.
I made all that up, I mean I didn't make
up the word increment and decrement and
the idea that would change the number
at a counter, but you get what I mean.
So this works the same way,
and where this becomes really
really cool which is builder,
the addCase .remove,
or not even removed just pass in,
like we saw this actually earlier.
That's why I kind of seated in to both
sell you on the fact that you could use
these things piecemeal, and also to
kind of lay the groundwork for this.
That is the action creator that we
call to create the action that we
eventually dispatched.
But that is all that
builder needs to know.
I'll set up all the conditions and
everything for this, and
we'll be good to go.
And you ready for this?
It's coming.
Not if I put the comma there.
I'm going to be so happy.
All right.
Here's one that's not a surprise.
Yeah, I didn't read it yet.
It's fine.
The state.
Don't spoil the surprise.
The task state is the task state, right?
Cool, cool, cool.
That action is perfectly typed.
It knew everything about it.
It grabs the return type as we saw
before in the counter example.
And so, I don't have to guess and remember
and jump back over to that reducer or
that action creator and try to guess
what the properties on it are.
It knows the type of it,
it knows what the payload is going to be.
Everything is good to go,
especially because I think we made a game
time decision to just use the IDs.
It knows that payload is just a string.
And I get all of that wired up,
ready to go.
And so there we can basically
say now the tricky part is,
it's you have to remember how
to do stuff immutably which is
a little bit fun, but
let's go ahead and we'll try it out.
And this is where you
can't outright replace it.
So let's see.
We got let's grab the user ID,
let's just for the action payload.
Yeah, I want to call it that so
it's less confusing for me.
Actually not payload just to name
it a little bit better I guess I
could have done something fun there but
I'm not going to.
And then what I'm going to do
unless someone's got a better plan,
because I'm here for
it especially in TypeScript,
object at entries loses its type,
definitions, it doesn't really know that
the key is the key of the object if you
said, like object.keys or whatever.
So I can't do some stuff, so
I'm very happy with four loops now,
which is a thing that if you
would ask me five years ago,
the last time, people change and
they grow, okay?
So iterate through,
that cost task of the state entities.
And we're going to say hey,
if your test user is equals userId,
I guess I could delete
it off the object too.
I'm so uncomfortable with immutable state.
But it's nice.
Most of the time I don't have to sit
there and spread operator my way up.
But it's still slightly disorienting.
All right, so go through every task.
If previously you were
pointing to user 123 and
user 123 is the one that we removed,
destroy that reference, right?
Just set it to undefined and that task is
no longer pointed at that user, right?
And that's it really.
And now if we wire up the remove button,
we should see that in place and yeah.
So now since every slice, every reducer
listens to everything, you just tell them
what they care about and
you say what you should do to yourself.
They only have access to their own state,
but they have access to messages and
actions from throughout the application.
So let's go ahead and we'll just
>> So this is when you delete a user.
>> Yep.
>> Delete all their tasks.
How would the scale with a for
loop like that?
>> I mean, ideally like one.
Hopefully, I have a API at some point.
This remove user could be
the ones that state or
I'm getting back a new list of users.
I'm blowing it away from the API,
or something like that, right?
If this is purely just
the client side thing, right?
Ideally the list hasn't grown that big,
right?
So yeah, this assumes, one of the things
we'll talk about a little bit is I think
estate management and
data fetching are two problems that
are similar both different, right?
And so here we're aiming for,
this is probably a relatively constrained
data set because it all clients
data to begin with, right?
This could have been like, they were like
they had a bunch of search queries and
we removed, like the last time I did
this is it was a advanced search query
builder that wasn't going to
get more than five or six rows.
But when you hit an X, I needed to remove
it from the filtering on the list and
remove it from the UI, which were being
stored in different places, right?
So I simply announced
that they removed it.
The various two or three places.
I think it changed the URL,
two of the query programs, right?
So I had three different parts of my UI,
but
it wasn't me processing big data that
I had loaded in memory in Permium.
>> Right, okay.
It was bound and I think, yeah, if you
have something that grows to a bigger
thing, there are things that you can do.
It's tricky because most
of them involve asynchrony.
So you would have to either right
middleware or use a thunk tl dr,
when you have to iterate over a whole
bunch of stuff in the browser.
Setting a, doing 10, set a timeout for
the next hit of the event loop and
doing another 10, is a great
strategy cause it lets clicks and
other things get in there, right?
So there are ways to do it, but
we're gonna assume this is,
I had just had some UI and we were
building a thing that eventually I was
going to have to put together, but
it didn't get too big in size.
All right.
So we've got that in place.
Now I do need to go to an individual
user and wire up that delete button.
So we go ahead and one day doesn't remove
user, a day it's gonna remove user today.
Today is the day that removes a user.
It's nice to leave yourself a little
presence when you're live coding.
So we pull that in, and
then we've got a use AppDispatch.
That should be your shortcut
editor eventually, awesome.
And we can do editing,
we can do a whole bunch of stuff.
And this will be interesting,
because if I do show the user,
I'll give you this one
is kind of an exercise.
I'm just being mindful of time.
Where you can say they edit
the name in the sidebar.
I also want to edit the name on the tasks,
right?
That's definitely a side quest that
one should investigate going on.
But here it will just
dispatch that action.
And I guess I made a different
decision last time.
We'll do the user ID and
we'll dispatch it.
Cool, let's verify that everything works
before I say it does and push stuff up.
So ideally, if we remove Dr.
Strange, you can see this now no
one is assigned by two things.
Just I announced that happen once.
Everything that cares.
Everyone that cares does
what they need to do.
And life goes on.
And is that easy to test?
Yeah.
You just have an array in your tasks that
have one of them with the right user ID,
you've send one of those actions and
the action creator and
you make sure it's gone, right?
And then you leave that
test in there forever.
Because that runs in a millisecond.
And you have confidence.
But this does that thing forever and
ever and ever.
And I've got a bunch of unassigned tasks.
Yeah, there are side quests to go on
here if you wanna explore more and
like just want a playground to play in.
There's some selects you can drop in here.
There's a bunch of other stuff like that.